# Paper

**Title**: Opacity of Memory Management in Software Transactional Memory

**Authors**: Holger Machens, Volker Turau

**Date**: 2013-08-13

**arXiv**: 1308.2881v1

**Categories**: cs.DC, cs.OS

**Source**: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.2881v1

---

## Content


Opacity of Memory Management in Software
Transactional Memory
Holger Machens and Volker Turau
Institute of Telematics
Hamburg University of Technology
{machens,turau}@tuhh.de
http://www.ti5.tuhh.de
Abstract. Opacity of Transactional Memory is proposed to be estab-
lished by incremental validation. Quiescence in terms of epoch-based
memory reclamation is applied to deal with doomed transactions caus-
ing memory access violations. This method unfortunately involves in-
creased memory consumption and does not cover reclamations outside
of transactions. This paper introduces a different method which com-
bines incremental validation with elements of sandboxing to solve these
issues.
Keywords: transactionalmemory,opacity,privatization,memoryrecla-
mation
1 Introduction
The stagnating improvement in processing speed and the increasing availability
of multi- and many-core processors have led to a growing interest in methods
and tools to ease concurrent and parallel programming. Transactional Memory
(TM)isconsideredasapromisingcandidatetoreplacetraditionalmutualexclu-
sion in critical sections by more intelligent concurrency control (CC) methods.
TM eliminates deadlocks and generally improves the scalability on multi-core
machines allowing more concurrency in critical sections.
Asthenamesuggests,TMprovidestransparentuseoftransactionsonshared
data in main memory. Transactions, as known from database or distributed
systems, speculatively execute a set of instructions to be rolled back in case of
data inconsistency or deadlock. A rollback consists of aborting the execution, a
discard of all modifications and a restart at the beginning.
Especially when performing dirty reads there is a critical time period be-
tween the occurrence of a data inconsistency and its detection. In this period
the transaction works on inconsistent data and may run in multiple different
problems: Pointers can be invalid, expressions in conditional branches may have
wrong results and lead to endless loops or parameters to operating system re-
source allocations (such as memory allocation) may be too big, resulting in
resource exhaustion. Transactions which run in such problems are known as
3102
guA
31
]CD.sc[
1v1882.8031:viXra

---

2 Opacity of MM in TM
doomed transactions and opacity isthe propertyofTM systemsto hide theside
effects of doomed transactions.
Incremental validation is a known method to achieve opacity in TM sys-
tems written in software (Software Transactional Memory, STM). Accordingly,
on each read of data a transaction validates all its previously read data by a
comparisonofaformerlytakencopytothecurrentstateofthedatainmemory.
This method is save in regards to modifications in memory, but not in respect
to memory reclamation (freeing memory) which can cause unexpected memory
access violations in transactions and process termination as its consequence.
Hudson et al. presented an algorithm for memory management (memory
allocator) for STM which prevents the occurrence of segmentation faults caused
by inconsistencies in doomed transactions. Main concept of the allocator is to
buffer and defer reclamations of memory blocks and perform them when no
transaction exists which could eventually try to access the affected memory
blocks.
Obviously, deferring memory reclamation has some disadvantages such as
increased memory consumption. Thus, we have analyzed the side effects of this
method and possible solutions to reduce or prevent them. Based on this knowl-
edge we have developed a different method, which significantly reduces memory
consumption and slightly improves the response time of the allocator functions
(allocation and reclamation). The results have been evaluated by comparison
using benchmarks such as the Stanford Transactional Applications for Multi-
Processing (STAMP).
The following section will give a brief introduction in the problem of opacity
in TM and existing solutions (Section 2). Section 3 then discusses the memory
allocator of Hudson et al. and its side effects. In Section 4 the design of our
method is explained and in Section 5 the evaluation and results are presented.
In the end we give a short conclusion and prospective on future work.
2 Opacity in Software Transactional Memory
Explaining doomed transactions and opacity [1] requires at least a simplified
modeloftransactionsinSTM:InaTM-enabledapplicationcertaincriticalcode
sections are marked to be executed as a transaction by the currently active
thread. Those sections are typically instrumented with calls into the STM run-
time library, which enforces the concurrency control. A transaction performs an
atomic transformation of shared data from one consistent state into another.
Thus, the shared data is inconsistent if at least one transaction started to up-
date shared data and has not yet finished. In turn, the state of a transaction is
said to be valid if all data read by it (its read-set) originates from exactly one
consistent state.
Currently, the most efficient STM implementations are based on optimistic
concurrency control algorithms. Transactions are executed speculatively assum-
ing that there are no concurrent transactions in the first place. Thus, those
transactions will inevitably run into inconsistent states that are meant to be

---

Opacity of MM in TM 3
detected and solved later by a rollback. During the time period between occur-
rence and detection the transaction works on inconsistent data and produces
unexpected side effects. While some side effects are of minor relevance others
can crash the application and even the entire operating system. A TM system
guarantees opacity if it hides all these side effects.
This is an extended list of possible side effects originating from [2]:
– Runtime errors
• Segmentation faults, caused by erroneous pointers
• Arithmetic faults, caused by erroneous operands (such as null divisor)
• Illegal instruction faults, caused by erroneous code modifications (con-
sidering self modifying code) or call or jump targets
– Bypassing concurrency control due to erroneous call or jump targets
• Execution of non-transactional code
• Exit without commit
– Non-terminatingcode,causedbyinvalidvaluesinbranchorabortconditions
• Infinite loops
• Infinite recursions
– Resource exhaustion, caused by invalid parameters to resource allocation
functions, such as memory allocation
While the reason for most of the errors above arise directly from the value
receivedbyadirtyreadothersoccurasaconsecutiveerrortounintendedmodifi-
cationstodataonthestack(e.g.whencrossingtheboundariesofalocalarray).
Most error prone are stack pointer (SP) and base pointer (BP) which are used
to access local data via an offset and the return address which points to the
instruction to return to from the current function. As soon as SP or BP gets
invalid, every access to local data is invalid as well which leads to any of the
errors above.
There are mainly three different approaches to prevent those errors which
will be explained in the following sub-sections.
2.1 Mutual Exclusion
Theeasiestwaytoprovideopacityistouselockstoguaranteemutualexclusion
on shared data according to a pessimistic concurrency control approach. Thus,
dirty reads are forbidden per definition and doomed transactions cannot occur.
But use of locks in TM has several disadvantages:
– InnativeprogramminglanguagessuchasClockshavetobeassociatedwith
memoryblocksofcertainsize(granularity).Lackingalternatives,lockshave
to be stored in a global table separated from the memory blocks. Entries
in this table are called owner records (orecs), because they were originally
introduced to store ownership of objects. Thus, each access to a memory
’object’ requires an additional access to the orec which in turn increases
cachemissrateonhardwarelevelandtherebyreducesscalabilityoftheTM.

---

4 Opacity of MM in TM
– Locking protocols involve waiting time which is in some cases just wasted.
ConsideratransactionAwhichwaitsonalockheldbytransactionB.Trans-
action B runs in a deadlock and performs a rollback, thereby releasing the
lock. Thus, A has been waiting for nothing. Additionally, those wait-for re-
lationships are transitive, which means, another transaction may have been
waitingforAaswellandthecasecanoccuragainafterrollback.Considering
at least one transaction to successfully finish in a conflicting situation the
worst case waiting time for the single transaction still grows quadratically
with the number of active transactions.
– Increasing the granularity of memory objects associated with locks reduces
the probability of conflicts, cache misses and waiting time in turn but it
reduces the concurrency and scalability as well.
Another method to reduce the waiting time is to allow so-called lock steal-
ing, where a transaction may decide to steal the lock currently held by another
transaction and proceeds with its work without waiting (cf. [3]). But this elimi-
natestheguaranteedmutualexclusionandagainrequiresstrategiestodealwith
doomed transactions as applied for optimistic concurrency control mechanisms
explained in the next sections.
2.2 Sandboxing
A way to achieve opacity in optimistic concurrency control is to embed trans-
actions in a sandbox which prevents some errors of doomed transactions and
transparently handles the remaining errors. This approach is almost similar to
the execution of intermediate code in a java virtual machine or a common lan-
guage runtime.
The most comprehensive existing example for sandboxing in C has been
published by Dalessandro and Scott [2]. They applied sandboxing on an STM
implementation which uses orec-based validation and deferred updates. That
meansinparticular,thateverywriteaccesstoanyapplicationdataisjuststored
inalocallog(so-calledwrite-set orredo-log)ofthetransaction.Theactualwrite
totheshareddataisperformedafterthetransactionhasbeencheckedtobevalid
at commit time.
The proposed sandbox additionally provides the following mechanisms to
guarantee opacity of transactions:
– Catching runtime errors in signal handlers which validate and abort the
transaction in case of inconsistency.
– Timer triggered repeated validation to escape from endless loops or recur-
sions.
– Validation prior to the execution of indirect jumps or function calls inside
transactions to prevent bypassing of the CC mechanism.
– Validationoftheparameterstomemoryallocationfunctionstopreventmem-
ory exhaustion.
– Validation of potential access to SP.

---

Opacity of MM in TM 5
Hence,besidesthedeferredupdateforanydata,themainmethodappliedto
achieve opacity is to insert validation at critical points in the transactional sec-
tionbyinstrumentation.SandboxingissaidtocausemorelatencybutDallessan-
dro and Scott have shown good performance and scalability of their approach
at least with the benchmarks they have used. Others criticize sandboxing for
potentially overriding signal handlers of the application but this can be solved
by chaining the signal handlers as it was illustrated in their work as well.
2.3 Incremental Validation
A widely accepted method to ensure opacity is incremental validation as pro-
posedin[1].Thefundamentalprincipalhereistovalidatethewholeread-seton
each read (cf. Listing 1.1). Thus, a validation consists of a validation of every
entryintheread-setoneachconsecutiveread.Thisvalidationcanbeperformed
according to two methods:
1. value-based: The read-set contains the value first read by the transaction
which is compared against the current content of the originating location in
memory. Differences indicate inconsistency (see for example NOrec [4]).
2. orec-based:Theread-setcontainsthevalueandthestateoftheorecseenon
thefirstreadaccess.Theorecstatemightberepresentedbyaversionnumber
for example, which is incremented on each write access to the associated
locationinmemory.Incaseoflockstealing,theorecwillcontainthecurrent
value of the lock (e.g. lock owner, see for example SkySTM [3]). Instead
of accessing the originating location in memory this method just validates
againstthestateoftheassociatedoreccomparingeithertheversionnumber
or lock state. Version differences or lost locks indicate inconsistencies in this
case.
1 int txread(int∗ addr) {
2 if (!validate()) rollback and restart ();
3 int val = ∗addr;
4 if (!validate()) rollback and restart ();
5 append to readset(addr);
6 return val;
7 }
Listing 1.1. Simple read function with incremental validation
Due to the repeated validation of the whole read-set on each transactional
read, the runtime complexity of incremental validation rises quadratically with
thenumberofreads.Theaverageeffortcanbereducedusingforexampleaglobal
commit counter, which is incremented with each commit of transactions. Thus,
a transaction can skip validations as long as the commit counter has not been
incremented. But the worst case complexity of this method is still quadratically
rising with the number of reads considering enough concurrent transactions.
Another issue of a global commit counter or orec-based validation is that they

---

6 Opacity of MM in TM
cannotdealwithconcurrentmodificationsonshareddatabyconcurrentthreads
which do not run in a transaction because they simply ignore this mechanisms.
Thus, the developer has to make sure that those cases will not occur.
Considering the runtime complexity there is a trade-off between sandboxing
andincrementalvalidation.Whileincrementalvalidationappliestoeachreadof
shared data sandboxing validates critical instructions only, but the amount of
critical instructions can be higher then the amount of shared reads. Thus, both
approaches have to be further analysed in future work and maybe combined to
cover both cases.
3 Quiescence for Memory Reclamations
A remaining problem of incremental validation arises through memory recla-
mation (freeing memory) in transactions. Those STMs that support memory
management in transactions generally implement the following basic algorithm:
– Memory allocations are performed directly and stored in a log simultane-
ously. In case of a rollback all the logged memory allocations have to be
returned to the memory management (i.e. freed).
– Memory reclamations just get stored in a log. They will be executed if the
transaction commits or they will be discarded if the transaction rolls back.
Considering properly implemented concurrent applications a memory block
(or references on it) will be privatized [5] before it gets freed. That means, that
asharedpointerreferencingthismemoryblockwillbealteredtoindicatethatit
isnolongervalid.ThismightbeachievedbyassigningNULLtothepointer(see
Listing1.2)orremovingitfromalistforexample.Beforeaccessingthedataother
threadsmusttestthereferencefirst(seeforexampleListing1.3).Athread,which
does not follow this protocol will inevitably run into a segmentation fault when
the associated memory is freed. Thus, we do not need to consider applications
whichdonotperformaprivatizationpriortoareclamationofasharedmemory
block.
1 /∗ privatize ptr ∗/
2 void∗ local ptr = shared ptr;
3 shared ptr = NULL;
4
5 /∗ reclamation ∗/
6 free(local ptr );
Listing 1.2. Example of privatization
A transaction trying to access a probably privatized pointer is depicted in
Listing 1.3. In Line 2 the transaction reads and validates the shared pointer
(shared ptr) which is probably privatized using the function in Listing 1.1. In
Line 3 it makes sure that the pointer is not privatized before it accesses the
referenced memory location in Line 4.

---

Opacity of MM in TM 7
1 transaction {
2 int∗ ptr = txread(shared ptr);
3 if (ptr != NULL) {
4 int val = txread(∗ptr);
5 /∗ ... ∗/
6 }
7 }
Listing 1.3. Transaction accessing the privatized pointer ptr
The following cases may occur in respect to memory reclamations:
1. The pointer on a memory block is privatized and freed in a transaction.
2. The pointer on a memory block is privatized in the transaction but freed
afterwards without running a transaction.
3. The pointer on a memory block is privatized and freed without running a
transaction.
Evenwithincrementalvalidationthefirsttwocasesalreadycauseaproblem:
After the last validation of the transaction (line 2 in Listing 1.1) and the actual
accesstothememorylocation(Line3inListing1.1)theprivatizingtransaction
could perform its commit and free the memory. Thus, the accessing transaction
will receive a segmentation fault (SkySTM for example suffers this problem in
case of lock stealing). This can be prevented using a global lock to establish
mutualexclusionbetweenconcurrentcommitsandreads.Butthiswouldheavily
decreasetheconcurrencyproportionaltothenumberofreadsduringtransaction
execution.
A method which solves the privatization problem without mutual exclusion
is called quiescence mechanism [6]. The general idea is to defer access to pri-
vatized data until every active transaction has noticed the privatization. One
implementation of this concept is to perform the privatization and then block
theprivatizingtransactionbeforeitmodifiestheprivatizeddatauntileverycon-
current transaction has either committed or aborted. Thus, all remaining active
transactions will read the new value of the privatized data (pointer in our case).
That means, there is a time when quiescence on that privatized data has been
achieved and the privatizing transaction can safely proceed (free the associated
memory in our case). Disadvantage of this method is, that it involves waiting
for other transactions which might be of arbitrary duration.
In case of incremental validation the described problem arises from memory
reclamations only. All the other data inconsistencies in respect to privatizations
will be detected through the validation after the dirty read (i.e. in Line 4 of
Listing 1.1). Thus, it is enough to defer just memory reclamations to a time of
quiescence.ThisisforexampleimplementedinNOrecasaso-calledepoch-based
memory reclamation [7,8]: The execution time of a concurrent application gets
logically partitioned into so-called global epochs. The first global epoch begins
at the start of the application. The lifetime of each thread is partitioned in
thread-specific epochs as well. A new epoch of a thread begins with the start

---

8 Opacity of MM in TM
of the thread and every start, restart and end of a transaction. A new global
epochbeginseachtimewhenallthreadshaveswitchedintoanewthread-specific
epoch. Every memory reclamation request in transactions gets associated with
the currently running global epoch and stored in a global data structure called
limbo. The limbo is checked by each committing transaction for reclamation
requeststhathavereachedthepointofquiescence(olderthantwoglobalepochs).
Those requests will then be executed by the currently committing transaction.
1 /∗ privatize ptr ∗/
2 void∗ tmp = ptr;
3 ptr = NULL;
4
5 /∗ transaction−aware barrier ∗/
6 transaction { /∗ intentionally empty ∗/ }
7
8 /∗ reclamation ∗/
9 free(tmp);
Listing 1.4. Privatization ’without’ transaction
The third case listed above generally requires to manually apply the quies-
cence mechanism in some way. For example a barrier between privatization and
memory reclamation which is interoperable with the CC used in other threads
accessingthememoryblock.Thisbarriermightbetotemporarilyacquirealock
in case of mutual exclusion or run an empty transaction in case of STM (cf.
Listing1.4).Inotherwords:thedeveloperisresponsibleforthecorrectoutcome
of the privatization when performed without a CC mechanism.
The epoch-based memory reclamation still has some disadvantages:
Impact on Memory Reclamation in General: Memory reclamations out-
sideoftransactionsusuallydonotconsiderthequiescencemechanism.Thus,
the second case described above is not covered and can still cause memory
accessviolations.Onlytheinstrumentationofallmemoryreclamationseven
thoseoutsideofanycriticalsectionwouldsolvethisproblem.Thisistechni-
cally possible but it has a negative impact on the performance of the whole
application.
Increased Memory Consumption: Deferringmemoryreclamationobviously
causes higher memory consumption as known from garbage collection (GC)
systems in managed code environments. Those systems generally know at
each time whether references on certain memory blocks still exist or not.
Thus, GC could release the free memory if required. In contrast the epoch-
based memory reclamation cannot release all vacant memory at any point
intime.Thus,besidesthefactthatitcauseshighermemoryconsumptionin
general, it will not be able to solve out of memory situations even if vacant
memory is available in the limbo.

---

Opacity of MM in TM 9
4 Incremental Validation without Quiescence
Incrementalvalidationisasimplemethodtoguaranteeopacityexceptformem-
ory access violations due to concurrent reclamations. Because of the disadvan-
tagesofepoch-basedreclamationwedevelopedanothermethodwhichcombines
incrementalvalidationwithanelementofsandboxingtosolvethememoryaccess
violations. We have chosen NOrec as the basis for our STM prototype to allow
directcomparisontoepoch-basedmemoryreclamation.NOrecusesdeferredup-
dates, incremental validation optimized by a commit counter and epoch-based
memory reclamation. Modifications to NOrec mainly affect the memory man-
agement and an enhancement to handle segmentation faults:
Allocator: Oursimplifiedallocatorreplacestheepoch-basedmemoryreclama-
tion. It implements the basic memory management algorithm for transac-
tions explained in the beginning of Section 3: Allocation and reclamation
requests are logged. The log is discarded on each rollback. Allocation re-
quests get executed instantly and freed in rollbacks. Reclamation requests
from the log are executed on commit.
Handling Memory Access Violations: Asignalhandlerhasbeenintroduced
to deal with segmentation faults. Default behavior of a segmentation fault
of an application is a process termination. Therefor, we optimized the case
where the handler is not called upon an application error: If the handler is
calledinsideanactivetransactionandthecommitcounterindicatesamodi-
ficationsincewehavelastvalidated,wefirstconsideraconflictasthereason
andinstantlyperformarollback.Iftherewasreallyaconflictthetransaction
will probably succeed in its next try. If there was no conflict the transaction
willreceivethesegmentationfaultagainbutthistimethecommitcounteris
eventuallynotmodifiedwhichindicatesavalidread-setandthusanerrorof
the application. In the latter case the error is escalated and the application
error gets visible.
This method implicitly solves even the cases where the reclamation request
occurs outside of a transaction (cf. Section 3).
We did not implement chaining of signal handlers for our prototype but it
just requires to override the runtime library functions to install signal handlers
(e.g. signal and sigaction). Those have to be modified to keep our signal
handler in front of the chain and the signal handler has to call the next signal
handler in the chain or terminate the process to escalate signals.
5 Evaluation
A comparison of NOrec with our modified version NOrecSig allows an evalua-
tion of the runtime performance in terms of scalability on parallelization and
memory consumption by measurements. For orientation purposes a third STM
implementation called CGL has been measured which establishes mutual exclu-
sion between all critical sections (i.e. transactions) using a single global lock.
DifferencesbetweenCGLandSTMalgorithmsareknownandnotdiscussedhere.

---

10 Opacity of MM in TM
We have selected those benchmarks of the Stanford Transactional Applica-
tions for Multi-Processing (STAMP, [9]) which contain memory reclamations
in transactions (except yada which had a bug in our version). To demonstrate
worst case behavior we implemented another benchmark called opacity which
aggressively repeats concurrent memory allocations and reclamations.
intruder: Simulated intrusion detection system processing different attacks.
ssca2: A benchmark operating on a huge directed multi-graph which concur-
rently adds and removes nodes.
vacation: Simulationofareservationsystemforresourcessuchasflights,rooms
etc. with configurable amount of clients.
opacity: Mimics an application with multiple threads rapidly exchanging mes-
sages via a shared message queue.
Measurements ran on a multi-core machine with four 3GHz AMD Opteron
6282SEprocessors,with16BulldozerCoreseach,a128GBmainmemory,Debian
Linux with Kernel 2.6.32-5 and a GCC 4.4.5. The number of threads has been
increasedupto32.Measurementshavebeenrepeateduntilaconfidenceinterval
of 5% of the interval [min,max] at a confidence level of 95% has been reached.
Graphics with redundant information have been removed to reduce the length
of this section.
100000 80000
CGL CGL
90000 NOrec 75000 NOrec
80000 NOrecSig 70000 NOrecSig
65000
70000
60000
60000
55000
50000
50000
40000 45000
30000 40000
20000 35000
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35
threads threads
Fig.1. intruder: Exec. time [ms] Fig.2. vacation: Exec. time [ms]
The execution time for both implementations was in all our observations
almost similar with a slight advantage of the NOrecSig variant (cf. Figures 1
and 2, execution time in milliseconds).
The memory consumption has been evaluated by detailed observation of the
current heap size at any time of execution (m(t)). The maximum total size of
the heap (m(t )) has been determined and an average memory consumption
max
M has been calculated as the integral of the current memory consumption m(t)
over the time of execution normalized by execution time.
(cid:90) t end m(t)
M = dt [byte] (1)
t end−t start
t start

---

Opacity of MM in TM 11
1.4e+12 1e+12
CGL 9e+11 CGL
1.2e+12 NOrec NOrec
NOrecSig 8e+11 NOrecSig
1e+12 7e+11
8e+11 6e+11
5e+11
6e+11 4e+11
4e+11 3e+11
2e+11
2e+11
1e+11
0 0
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35
threads threads
Fig.3. opactiy: m(t ) [byte] Fig.4. opactiy: M [byte]
max
Memory consumption of NOrecSig was in most cases significantly lower and
insomecasesevensimilar.Theworstcaseinmaximumandaveragewasreached
with our benchmark (Figures 3 and 4). The difference of 1.2TB1 in maximum
memoryconsumptionillustratesthedangerofresourceexhaustion.Theintruder
benchmark (Figures 5 and 6) shows another case where maximum and aver-
age memory consumption of NOrec are just moderately higher than that of
NOrecSig.
8e+08 5.6e+08
CGL CGL
7.5e+08 NOrec 5.4e+08 NOrec
NOrecSig NOrecSig
5.2e+08
7e+08
5e+08
6.5e+08
4.8e+08
6e+08
4.6e+08
5.5e+08 4.4e+08
5e+08 4.2e+08
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35
threads threads
Fig.5. intruder: m(t ) [byte] Fig.6. intruder: M [byte]
max
6 Conclusion
Thereviewoftechniquestodealwithmemoryaccessviolationsofdoomedtrans-
actionsduetomemoryreclamationafterprivatizationrevealedremainingissues
with incremental validation and epoch-based memory reclamation. Inspired by
sandboxing, the approach proposed here is to use incremental validation and
1 Memoryisnotaccessedandthuscangrowovertheactualcapacityofthehardware

---

12 Opacity of MM in TM
handle generated segmentation fault signals to recover from inconsistent states
of the transaction. This method solves all memory access violations occurring
from memory reclamations inside and outside of transactions. A comparison of
a prototype to NOrec has proven, that it slightly improves the response time of
memory management functions and effectively decreases memory consumption.
That way it improves the opacity of incremental validation because it prevents
unexpected memory exhaustion to occur. A future comparison to sandboxing
will clarify their relationship in terms of throughput and scalability.
References
1. Guerraoui, R., Kapalka, M.: On the correctness of transactional memory. In: Pro-
ceedings of the 13th ACM SIGPLAN Symposium on Principles and practice of
parallel programming. PPoPP ’08, New York, NY, USA, ACM (2008) 175–184
2. Dalessandro, L., Scott, M.L.: Sandboxing transactional memory. In: Proceedings
of the 21st international conference on Parallel architectures and compilation tech-
niques. PACT ’12, New York, NY, USA, ACM (2012) 171–180
3. Lev, Y., Luchangco, V., Marathe, V., Moir, M., Nussbaum, D., Olszewski, M.:
Anatomy of a scalable software transactional memory. In: Proc. 4th ACM SIG-
PLAN Workshop on Transactional Computing. (2009)
4. Dalessandro, L., Spear, M.F., Scott, M.L.: Norec: streamlining stm by abolishing
ownership records. In: Proceedings of the 15th ACM SIGPLAN Symposium on
PrinciplesandPracticeofParallelProgramming.PPoPP’10,NewYork,NY,USA,
ACM (2010) 67–78
5. Spear, M.F., Marathe, V.J., Dalessandro, L., Scott, M.L.: Privatization techniques
forsoftwaretransactionalmemory. In:Proceedingsofthetwenty-sixthannualACM
symposiumonPrinciplesofdistributedcomputing.PODC’07,NewYork,NY,USA,
ACM (2007) 338–339
6. Wang,C.,Chen,W.Y.,Wu,Y.,Saha,B.,Adl-Tabatabai,A.: Codegenerationand
optimization for transactional memory constructs in an unmanaged language. In:
International Symposium on Code Generation and Optimization, 2007. CGO ’07.
(2007) 34–48
7. Hudson, R.L., Saha, B., Adl-Tabatabai, A.R., Hertzberg, B.C.: Mcrt-malloc: a
scalable transactional memory allocator. In: Proceedings of the 5th international
symposiumonMemorymanagement.ISMM’06,NewYork,NY,USA,ACM(2006)
74–83
8. Fraser,K.:Practicallock-freedom.PhDthesis,PhDthesis,UniversityofCambridge
Computer Laboratory (2004)
9. Cao Minh, Chi and Chung, JaeWoong and Kozyrakis, Christos and Olukotun,
Kunle: STAMP: Stanford Transactional Applications for Multi-Processing. In:
IISWC’08:ProceedingsofTheIEEEInternationalSymposiumonWorkloadChar-
acterization. (September 2008)

---
